One day T-Sips tried to firebomb it.
And so we were out, well, we'd always been out guarding the perimeter at night, but we were reinforced then.
So this is during your time?
Yes.
Oh, yes.
Is this when the light plane flies over?
Yes, yes.
Well, describe that.
Well, that's all there was.
I mean, it just flew over.
Supposedly tried to drop a Molotov cocktail on it, but that green wood, it wouldn't have done anything.
Was this daylight or dark?
Daylight, as I recall.
But in those days, you know, there weren't many airplanes around.
Do you remember any good anecdotes from Bonfire in your era?
Stories, myths, legends?
No, not really, other than the TU attempt to bomb it.
What were the worst injuries that you recalled during your four years?
I don't recall any.
It was remarkably injury-free.
But there must have been occasionally somebody would get a little bit of an ax cut or.
Oh yeah, but I don't remember anything serious.
I don't remember anybody being killed or, I mean, anything that stuck in my mind.
Was just about everybody involved in Bonfire?
Well, all the Corps was and the veterans didn't get involved, but the Corps, everybody.
Now in your day did you have to be in the Corps all four years or could you drop out after two?
No, I had to be in all four years.
All four, okay.
But didn't have to?
There were some people kicked out of the Corps who were allowed to stay in school.
I think Bill Clayton was one of those.
Really?
I believe you.
But they were looked down upon, weren't they?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
There weren't very many of those.
Describe getting your special kind of ring.
Well, that's something that you're
Look forward to from day one and then when the day comes it's quite a thrill to put it on.
Do you remember what it cost?
I think it cost $100.
And was that your money or mom and dad's money or do you remember?
I don't remember.
Surely you have some ring stories of either where you lost it or where somebody, you're somewhere on the other side of the world and somebody sees it.
Share some of those.
In 1979 we went on this tour of Eastern Europe with Governor Clements and our first stop was Budapest.
And like lots of the European airports, you taxi up and then the bus comes out and picks you up.
So I'm standing in the bus with a hand on the bar, and this very European-looking man says, are you an Aggie?
I mean, he's dressed in tweeds.
He's got a tweed hat.
He's got a mustache.
In those days, he still didn't have many mustaches.
It just shocked me.
So I said yes and introduced myself.
Turned out that he was an Austrian who somehow got into the US Army and came to A&M on the GI Bill.
And his wife was Hungarian and she taught the Modern Language Department and her claim to fame was that she was the only woman
who marched in Earl Rudder's inaugural.
Anyway, we meet in Budapest, Hungary.
Then in losing it, we were in the Dominican Republic.
And I've always had a bad habit of washing my hands, take off a ring, and leave it on the laboratory.
Well, it disappeared, and to this day you're not sure what happened.
I'll accuse Carolyn of playing with it and dropping it in the commode, but I don't know.
So this is a new one.
So that's a new one.
That's about the 30th.
No, there's two.
When I asked Dr. Bowen in his student day interview, he said he was a Cal Tech graduate student.
on the train, he spent a semester or so at Heidelberg.
He's on the train going across the Alps to Venice with two German graduate students.
And this well-dressed lady, mature lady, is reading the paper, sitting across from him, and she looks over and said, oh, are you from Texas A&M?
Yes, ma'am.
How did you know?
Well, I'm from the United States and my husband went to A&M.
Oh really?
Yes, you might have heard of him.
His name is H.B.
Zachary.
Oh my goodness.
And he said even as a student he knew H.B.
Zachary was.
Well, final review, the final final review, what was special about it?
being through, finishing, all behind us.
And that was the day we'd worked so hard to achieve.
How well prepared did you feel you were for the future?
I thought I was well prepared.
As I say, having come through the Corps experience,
I thought I could take anything or survive anything.
And mom and dad were here.
Who else was special for commencement?
My brother and grandma.
My grandmother came too.
And commencement was held where?
Gun Hall.
Was there a special unforgettable speaker?
Martin Bradley spoke at commissioning.
I'd forgotten who the commencement speaker was.
And every name called, diplomas were handed out?
Oh yeah, just like it.
It was supposed to have been held in Kyle Field with the rain.
What creates Aggie spirit?
I guess a shared experience.
What experiences?
Well, coming to an isolated place like this, a relatively isolated, particularly in those days it was isolated.
What are the key events that are most significant to that experience?
Well, I don't know today.
No, no, but for you.
But in my experience it was that core experience.
the tough times, the difficult times, and yet knowing that I wasn't going to give up.
that they couldn't do anything to me that would make me leave.
As I say, it just showed me that I had to enter resources to survive anything after that.
All right.
Looking back, what did you learn at Texas A&M that has been important to you all your life?
Well, I think leadership.
The core experience in the military science classes were a dimension that other students didn't get.
And I think that has stood me in good stead throughout.
I think I got a good education.
I won't say a superior one, but I think I got a very good education at the time in terms of what was available.
Was that education theoretical or practical?
Both.
That's what I would have expected you to.
And I think there are only
Two or three professors I had that were, I don't consider being good professors.
In other words, I think I've- Almost, you're saying, then almost every one of them.
I think, as I say, I got a good education.
I had professors who were good and who took an interest in their students.
I mean, I think they were oriented towards students.
If you wanted to chat with one of them, were they usually available?
Oh, yes.
See, that's my worry today.
And they seemed to genuinely, I never had any feeling that I was imposing on them.
All right.
If you were a consultant to Texas A&M's leadership today, what advice would you give them about how they should guide A&M in the future?
It's such a different world.
I don't know.
I don't know what.
I think one thing that I did not appreciate as a student was the uniqueness of the land grant system.
I think that's something that we're losing today, and I worry about it.
These institutions were formed for a purpose, and that purpose is just as real today as it was when they were formed.
I think, and I'm out of touch now, but when I did know, I think Michigan State made a tremendous mistake when they got some people in charge that tried to downplay their land grant status and make them just like another university.
And so I think that's the biggest thing I would say today, is in looking at the future,
Keep in mind and treasure this land-grant heritage that we've got, not to live in the past, but to look at that relationship between the university and the people and that obligation for service and a dedication to service.
That's unique in the land-grant system.
If someone walked up to you and handed you a check for a million dollars with one requirement, you must pass that on to Texas A&M, for what purpose would you want that gift used?
In other words, if you had the capacity to make a truly big gift to A&M, what would you want that gift to do?
I think we've got enough scholarship money, and I wouldn't feel that that would be a priority.
My own feeling would probably be something in the area of
understanding of science and what is good science and what is junk science.
I think one of the biggest problems we've got today is we don't distinguish and we got too much junk science out there.
With our land grant tradition, I think something to focus on this public policy issue would be terribly important.
and significant.
I don't see anybody doing it.
This issue of global warming, I think is just full of junk science.
And we can't, don't have any way of looking and getting it in perspective, a true perspective.
So something in that area of trying to foster an understanding of what's good science
As I look at the stuff you hear today in nutrition, for example, garbage, absolute garbage, and nobody is doing that.
I think there ought to be a course in nutrition in the curriculum.
Everybody needs to know some fundamentals of human nutrition.
That's just an example of the junk science that we're
bombarded with today, so something in the area of public policy and dealing with an understanding of science in today's world.
I've got only two more questions.
We'll do one of them and then I'll stop and ask what have we not covered that we should have.
To what former Aggies, and that can mean former students, students, faculty, staff, friends, do you feel most indebted, most grateful?
Looking at now from your student years.
Oh, from my student years?
Well, faculty, obviously.
No, but what individuals?
Well, I mentioned Joe Campbell, Dr. Morgan, S.S.
Morgan, a professor of English, Dr. Mayo.
As I say, George Robertson made such an impression.
I'm in the importance of writing, clearly.
Just any number of people.
Spike White, Mr. Cashin, these people that took an interest in me as a person, as a lonely little student, encouraged me.
I'm sure there are more.
What have we left out?
What topics that we should have from your student leaders?
Oh, there's so much to do.
I wish I could remember his name.
I had a, I've forgotten now whether it was in the economics department or the history department, but it was an economic history course.
I think it may have been in economics, but it was one of the best courses I had.
It opened my eyes and I saw history in a different light.
Can't think of his name now.
Anyway, there are others that I could pull out.
All right.
Then the last question that I have is what feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M today?
Very strong feelings.
I still think it's a tremendous institution.
It's a unique kind of an institution, as I say, and has been so important to this state and can be so important in the future.
I don't know whether you remember what Dolph Briscoe told me when he was leaving the governor's office, and he said, one of my biggest regrets is that I didn't make more use of the NM services.
and that stuck with me.
I told Bill Clements that the first time I met him and said, I don't want you to leave office saying that.
You'll remember he came over, spent a day with us,
and impressed me so when he pulled out that little pad and started taking notes.
Then when we had a press conference at the end, I started asking him questions.
He just pulled that out and started reading back his notes.
So, you know, that to me puts A&M in perspective.
It's a special kind of institution.
And I'm tremendously proud of it.